# Hi, I’m Giovanni

## My Journey

I began life as a curious kid in a small seaside town in north-east Italy, a place that instilled in
me an appreciation for simplicity and beauty. Though I initially pursued Modern History at
university, life led me down a different path. It wasn’t long before I met Morena—the love of my
life—and later became a father to three amazing kids. In 2014, inspired by the clarity and drive
that family brought into my life, I made a deliberate career pivot to software engineering. This
switch wasn’t just about learning to code; it was about embracing a new medium to solve problems and
create meaningful impact.

## My Professional Philosophy

After more than a decade in the field, I stand as a dedicated software craftsman whose work is
defined by an unwavering commitment to quality, clarity, and continuous improvement. Inspired by the
insights found in SOLID: The Software Design and Architecture Handbook by Khalil Stemmler, I believe
that being a professional isn’t about titles—it’s about the relentless pursuit of excellence in
every line of code and every design decision.

### A Lifelong Craft:

Software craftsmanship is a continuous journey. Every line of code is an opportunity to refine my
skills, improve system design, and elevate the overall quality of the software I build. I embrace
the philosophy that quality is achieved through iterative learning and constant improvement.

### Precision Through Principles:

I firmly adhere to design principles such as SOLID to ensure that my work is both robust and
maintainable. Each design decision is made with care, aiming to reduce complexity and build systems
that are as elegant as they are functional. I treat every project as an opportunity to demonstrate
precision in both design and execution.

### Intentional Simplicity and Clarity:

I believe that simplicity is a hallmark of good design. Through practices like Test Driven
Development (TDD) and meticulous refactoring, I strive to keep solutions straightforward and
accessible. This intentional simplicity not only streamlines development but also enhances the
long-term sustainability of the software.

### Delivering Value Through Technical Expertise:

My contributions are rooted in deep technical knowledge and a commitment to ethical, responsible
engineering. I add value by crafting solutions that meet real-world needs—ensuring that every
project I contribute to is built on a foundation of rigor and clarity. I work collaboratively with
my teams to solve complex problems, always prioritizing high standards over managerial accolades.

### Continuous Learning and Accountability:

I view each project as a stepping stone in my journey of growth. By staying curious and embracing
the latest insights in software design, I ensure that my work evolves alongside industry
advancements. This accountability to quality and innovation is what drives me to consistently
deliver impactful, sustainable software solutions.
